= How to Use Vision Test for ZTL Test Case =

== Demo ==
<wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hsTxSuMq4kk"/>

If you cannot see the youtube, please see this url instead. http://www.screencast.com/t/FAFodxwGM

== Configuration ==
There are five properties about image comparing in the _config.properties_:
 * *imgsrc*: the path of the base images to be stored.
 * *imgdest*: the path of the different images to be stored.
 * *comparable*: to decide whether store the image or compare it. If true, it is comparable.
 * *granularity*: It is an integer to specify how big the section of the image to be compared. It is better to have 1~15, less is a precise comparison, but performance is slow. Don't specify too high, it may compare without any different.
 * *leniency*: It is an integer to distinguish the brightness of each section point. It is better to have 1~10, less is a precise comparison. 

== Making Base Images ==
Please make sure the following setting is specified well:
 # *imgsrc* must be defined. If not yet, it will fail at the testing runtime while you are using this function.
 # *comparable* must be *false*.
Invoking the *verifyImage()* method while running the testing case, the result of the testing case will be stored to the given path (*imgsrc*) you specified.

*Note* that those base images are very important for the image comparison, so you'd better to back up them first.
== Comparing the Result ==
Please make sure the following setting is specified well:
 # *imgsrc* must be defined, and those base images must already exit.
 # *imgdest* must be defined.
 # *comparable* must be *true*.
Invoking *verifyImage()* method while running the test case, the result of the testing case which have some different area will be stored to the given path (*imgdest*) you specified.

*Note* that we will store the result by different testing name with its browser type(for example, _CASE_1455584Test_chrome_result.png_) and classify them into a time naming folder, such as 031612 (_MMddHH_ date format).